# A Backup Program for Linux and Windows.

## File Backup

Backup the '/home/{user}' file system to the backup storage and to cloud
storage. This is a program built to satisfy my own way of working. It
may or may not be useful to others. The basic usage is either at the
command line or run automatically at some set time. For Linux, this
automatic run can be done with either a cron job or using System-D. For
Windows, use the built in Task Scheduler program. See
(<https://www.howtogeek.com/123393/how-to-automatically-run-programs-and-set-reminders-with-the-windows-task-scheduler/>)
for example.

Logging of results is automatic using a database and includes start and
stop times, elapsed time, and any errors occurring. Adding the verbose
option also sets the logging to verbose mode adding more information on
files and directories backed up and errors.

The program is written in Python and is tested on Fedora Linux and
Windows 11 using Python versions 3.9, 3.10 and 3.11(beta4) with no
errors and approximately 95% coverage.

### Part 1: Backup to external storage

Backup any new and changed files in the global home directory to the
backup directory on an external disk drive. A new file is one that has
been added or renamed since the last backup. A changed file is defined
as one whose modification time stamp is greater than the last stored
backup time stamp.

Any new directories needed are created in the backup store and
new/changed files are copied to the store.

### Part 2 â€“ Backup to Cloud Storage

*Not yet implemented*

After the external storage is updated, backup to cloud storage using the
'restic' program.

## Usage

At the command prompt, enter backup \[args\].

Arguments (all are optional, -b is default if none are given):

-   `-s`, `--setup`: (*Partially Implemented)* Run the setup portion to
    configure the program. Currently sets the file source and
    destination directories to default values and enables backup to the
    external storage device.

-   `-b`, `--backup`: Run the backup portion. This is the default if no other
    option is included, required if backup is desired when other options
    are included. It will fail with a message to the console and to the
    log if no configuration is found.

-   `-r`, `--restore` (*Not yet implemented) R*estore the previously saved
    cloud backup

-   `-t`, `--test` (*Not yet implemented)* Run the backup portion showing
    what would be accomplished without actually saving anything.

-   `-v`, `--verbose` Show information as program steps through the file
    backup process. When verbose mode is selected, the verbose messages
    are also added to the log.

**Examples**:

\[<me@thebes>\]$ backup

Will run the backup program with the previously stored configuration
file.

\[<me@thebes>\]$ backup -s

Will run the backup program opening the configuration window. When the
configuration window is closed, the program will be terminated.

\[<me@thebes>\]\> backup -s -b

Will first open the configuration window then, when the window is
closed, runs the backup.

\[<me@thebes>\]\> backup -b -v

Will run the backup program with the previously stored configuration
file. Additional progress messages will be sent to standard output along
with any error messages. The logging subsystem will also save the
additional messages.

---

Author: Lorn B Kerr (lornburtkerr at gmail dot com)

Copyright: (c) 2022 Lorn B Kerr

License: MIT License; see file LICENSE
